As new generation of phones get launched, many features are introduced with them.

If we look briefly into the past, we can find many features which have been introduced with a lot of hype and later died out because they were practical useless to us.

Even the current smartphones which are being launched also have a plenty of useless features which are being launched as flagship features.

Here are the Top 7 Useless features of smartphones.

1. More Cameras

🤦‍♂️ We still don’t understand why companies drop phones with Macro/depth cameras, even the high-end smartphones come with a macro or depth camera which do not have any use.

The companies should really stop giving those 2MP camera just to keep hyping that they launched a phone with more cameras.

We as consumers must understand that

MORE CAMERAS ≠ Better Camera systems.

A single cam with proper image processing can do a better job than having quad cam on the back. Many big companies like Apple, Google have repeatedly proved this with their Smartphone launches.

Companies need to stop promoting on more number of cameras and start taking image processing seriously.

They should provide us with a decent camera setup like a telephoto, ultrawide or an integrated macro with telephoto with proper resolutions and good algorithms for processing of the image taken.

2.Higher Megapixels

As you guys already know that the camera system of the budget and mid-range usually don’t live up to the hype they launch with. Many smartphones fail to match even 50% of what the smartphone companies claim.

Now a days, smartphone companies have started to hype about the pixels of the cameras used in the smartphones.

They are saying 64MP, 108MP and a whooping 200MP on a smartphone which sounds absolutely mind blowing on the spec sheet but a total disaster in practical use.

The manufacturers are making customers believe that More Megapixels means better cameras which is nothing but a marketing trick.

More and more megapixels on small sensors of smartphone causes pixel cramming which isn’t a thing in DSLRs because of the larger sensors.

The more pixels on smartphone sensors, the less each pixel is exposed to light thus affecting low light performance.

Better camera performance finally comes down to dynamic range, color accuracy, post processing and low light performance.

That is the reason why major smartphone brands usually stick to 12MP or 16MP which produces the best pictures even in difficult scenarios.

Always remember, More Megapixel ≠ Better Camera Quality

3. High Refresh Rates

High Refresh Rate trend was started by a smartphone gaming company (Razer Inc.) in 2017, since then many smartphones have been launched with high refresh rates (HRRs)

High Refresh rate displays are really good and really make the game play and usage snappy but only a HRR cannot make a phone faster.

The refresh rate should be supported by the OS, apps and even games. Otherwise, it is just a useless feature.

Nowadays, Many smartphones even budget phones have 120Hz RR but they fail to optimize the operating system or apps making the whole experience really bad.

A decent 90Hz display or even 120Hz with good touch sampling rate and optimization is sufficient enough to carry on day-to-day tasks or even play high-end games.

HRRs above 120Hz like 144Hz, 240Hz are literally sound crazy on paper but in reality they will be no different to 120Hz considering other factors like optimization,etc.

Our advise is not to keep HRRs as a deciding factor when buying a smartphone. It is simply a market trick.

4. Curved Screen

We have to blame Samsung for starting this trend 👺. Although, this trend seems to get saturated for now but this is also an useless feature.

The curved screen might make your phone look premium but it is the most unwanted feature in a smartphone.

The are a number of problems like ghost touches, high cost for repair, no proper tempered or hard glass are available.

Although, Samsung started the trend , it also realized that curved screen s are not practical and therefore, they reverted back to the flat screens.

5. Phone Cleaners

Till now, we have seen only useless hardware features, but there are a plenty of software features which does more harm than good.

Most of the Chinese manufacturers have started pushing cleaner apps on their smartphones which are system apps and cannot be removed from the phone.

These apps don’t speed your device, it indeed does slow your phone by running in the background, closing recent apps and even draining the battery.

You can manually clear the cache in the settings, which is much easier and safer than these apps.
